docs(aws): AWS EC2 provider instructions, diagram and code for manual AWS IAM set up. (#1996)
spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io: setup/install/providers/aws/aws-ec2.md

{% include toc %}

> > :warning: These instructions were updated to manually set up the AWS provider with [Option-3](#option-3--configure-with-aws-iam-console) on **2020-08-22**. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> :warning: These instructions were updated, on **2020-08-22**, to manually set up the AWS provider with [Option-3](#option-3--configure-with-aws-iam-console). <br>
```

> worked on. In the meantime, please use the following
> [AWS tutorial: Continuous Delivery using Spinnaker on Amazon EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/continuous-delivery-spinnaker-amazon-eks/).

Use the AWS EC2 Provider if you want to manage EC2 Instances via Spinnaker. Refer to the [AWS Cloud Provider Overview](https://spinnaker.io/setup/install/providers/aws/) to understand how AWS IAM must be set up with the Spinnaker AWS EC2 provider.

Spinnaker will use an [AWS IAM structure](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/) of users, roles, policies, and so on, to access AWS services and resources securely. There are 3 options to set up the AWS IAM structure

> 1. AWS CloudFormation templates deployed with the CloudFormation Console

Reviewer: I still think it would better to hyperlink each of these to its respective section below.

Author: i can do that in the next iteration. I dont really know how to do it. what do you think?

Reviewer: Well, the syntax for doing this is very simple, but the anchor text to use is automatically generated, and will be long and complex in this case because the headings have lots of words and numbers. If you're set up to preview changes, as describe in this repo's [readme](https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io#readme), you can go into the generated html and look at the anchor text.

I'll do a suggested change, just to show you how, and I'll take a guess at the anchor text, but you should confirm the text that's generated.

> 1. AWS CloudFormation templates deployed with the CloudFormation Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [AWS CloudFormation templates deployed with the CloudFormation Console](#option-1-configure-with-aws-cloudformation-console)
```

Reviewer: @aleon1220 here's how to hyperlink it.

--parameter-overrides AuthArn=FROM_ABOVE ManagingAccountId=FROM_ABOVE --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM --region us-west-2
```

## Option-3 : Configure with AWS IAM Console

> ### Create Roles

Reviewer: @aleon1220 is there a plan for adding content under these level-3 headings?

Author: hello Dave. Yes there is a plan. I grabbed some screenshots but now i think is best to just write direct code there.

Reviewer: So you're going to add it later, in a separate PR?

### Create Policies

### Associate Policies to User or Roles
The permissions defined in the policies are attached to the users or roles. This will allows Spinnaker to use either a user or a role and deploy EC2 instances in any particular region.

There are 2 options here
1. Using AWS IAM User with AccessKey and Secret
Option number 1 is useful for creation of user with AWS Access Key and secret. This is a common configuration. 
2. Using AWS IAM Roles
Option 2 uses the IAM roles *ManagingRole* and *ManagedRoles*. This setting is applied on some environments that have extra security considerations.

## Halyard Configurations

> After the AWS IAM  structure (user, roles, policies and trust relationship) has been set up, the next step is to add the AWS configurations to Spinnaker via Halyard CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the AWS IAM  structure (user, roles, policies, and trust relationship) has been set up, the next step is to add the AWS configurations to Spinnaker via Halyard CLI:
```

Reviewer: Also: "user, roles, policies, and trust relationship"

Some of those are plural and some are singular. If it's just one user and one trust relationship, and there can be multiple roles and policies, then that's ok. Otherwise, make them all plural.

> The General steps are the following:

Reviewer: You can delete this whole line. The previous paragraph is sufficient to introduce the steps.

--parameter-overrides AuthArn=FROM_ABOVE ManagingAccountId=FROM_ABOVE --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM --region us-west-2
```

## Option-3 : Configure with AWS IAM Console

> The Spinnaker **Managing** role AWS account Assumes the Spinnaker **Managed** role AWS account in a target AWS account via AWS IAM resources (policies, roles, users, trust relationship, etc). This allows Spinnaker to take control of the AWS cloud resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Spinnaker **Managing** role AWS account assumes the Spinnaker **Managed** role AWS account in a target AWS account via AWS IAM resources (policies, roles, users, trust relationship, etc). This allows Spinnaker to control the AWS cloud resources.
```

> For the Example below the AWS Account **spinnakerManaging** assumes the **spinnakerManaged** role in the AWS accounts **develop** and **staging**. The account **spinnakerManaging** is where Spinnaker lives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Example below the AWS Account **spinnakerManaging** assumes the **spinnakerManaged** role in the AWS accounts **develop** and **staging**. The account **spinnakerManaging** is where Spinnaker lives.
```

Reviewer: "...where Spinnaker _lives_."

Is there a more descriptive term than "lives"? Is it the account Spinnaker _uses_ to access AWS resources?

Author: @dorbin  Is the Account where Spinnaker is deployed and running.

A great use case for this set up is to deploy pre-built AWS AMIs to AWS EC2.

![Example AWS IAM structure for Spinnaker AWS Provider](/setup/install/providers/images/example-aws-provider.svg)

> Before you start create a simple table mapping the Account names and account IDs for your desired set up. An example table is shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start, create a simple table that maps the Account names to account IDs for your desired set up. An example table is shown below.
```

| Name              | Account Id   |
|-------------------|--------------|
| spinnakerManaging | 100000000001 |
| develop           | 200000000002 |
| staging           | 300000000003 |

### AWS IAM user or Roles
There are 2 options here
1. Set Up AWS IAM structure and use an AWS IAM User *spinnakerManaging* with AccessKey and Secret. This option is useful for creation of user with AWS Access Key and secret. This is a common configuration. 
2. Using AWS IAM Roles. Option 2 uses the IAM roles *ManagingRole* and *ManagedRoles*. This setting is applied on some environments that have extra security considerations. For Example the EC2 instance where Spinnaker is used to deploy AWS resources has the *ManagingRole* attached. The *ManagingRole* contains the AWS IAM policies required to manage AWS resources.

### Create AWS IAM user

> - Access AWS IAM console

Reviewer: @aleon1220 can you make this an ordered list instead of unordered?

Author: yes

- Switch to spinnakerManaging AWS Account
- Add user and name it **spinnakerManaging**
- Check the “Programmatic access” checkbox
- Add tags that will identify this user e.g. spinnakerManaging
- Create user
- Copy the “Access key ID” and “Secret access key” to your secret management system i.e. Vault, AWS Secrets manager, 1Password
- Copy the AWS ARN of the Created User `arn:aws:iam::100000000001:user/spinnakerManaging`

### Create Roles
#### Create Managed Roles in each target AWS Account
The order of creation should be

1. Create **spinnakerManaged** in **develop ID=200000000002**
2. Create **spinnakerManaged** in **staging ID=300000000003**

> - Access AWS IAM console

Reviewer: Here too, it's a procedure.

4. Select EC2. You can change this later, because we want to specify an explicit consumer of this role in a later stage.
5. For permissions, search for "PowerUserAccess" and select this policy. This gives the role permission to access AWS services.
6. Add tags that will help you identify this role.
7. Enter a role name: spinnakerManaged.
8. Create the roll.
9. Select the created role and add an inline policy using the following JSON snippet: 

   ```json
   {
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [
           {
               "Action": [
                   "iam:ListServerCertificates",
                   "iam:PassRole"
               ],
               "Resource": [
                   "*"
               ],
               "Effect": "Allow"
           }
       ]
   }
   ```

10. Name the policy "PassRole-and-Certificates".
11. Create the policy.

Repeat these steps for the second AWS environment. In this example, that is the **staging** environment.

### Create the role BaseIAMRole

BaseIAMRole is the default role that Spinnaker will use if the **spinnakerManaged** role is not found.

1. Navigate to the AWS IAM console. 
2. Create the role.

> 3. Select **EC2**, and click **Next: Permissions**

Reviewer 2: Is it intentional that the `BaseIAMRole` have no permission policies attached?

Author: Great Spotting. I don't give permissions to that role because is a default one. If something in cloud Driver fails and it requires the use of the default role then errors will be generated.
Perhaps it should have basic permissions to interact with AWS EC2 AMIs or some default policy but I don't think it should have Administration powers of any kind.

- What do you think? @brian-armory 

Actually the BaseIAM role only has a default permissions policy that allows assumeRole
```
  BaseIAMRole:
    Type: AWS::IAM::Role
    Properties:
      RoleName: BaseIAMRole
      AssumeRolePolicyDocument:
        Statement:
          - Action:
              - sts:AssumeRole
            Effect: Allow
            Principal:
              Service:
                - ec2.amazonaws.com
        Version: "2012-10-17"
      Path: /
```

Reviewer 2: Definitely not admin powers since it should function as a sane default, and erroring out on something obvious before a person gets too far makes sense to me.

4. Click **Next: Tags**
5. Add tags that will identify this Role. Spinnaker
6. Specify the Role Name as **BaseIAMRole**

Repeat this process for all the accounts.

### Create AWS Policy

The AWS IAM policy gives permissions to the **spinnakerManaging** user to assume the **spinnakerManaged** role for the different target accounts (**develop** and **staging**).

1. Select the AWS account where Spinnaker lives **spinnakerManaging**.
2. Access AWS IAM console.

> 3. List the AWS ARN of the **spinnakerManaged** accounts **develop** and **staging**. For example, the list below shows 3 AWS ARNs for different AWS accounts, each corresponding to an environment:

Reviewer 2: @aleon1220 this sentence says 3 arns, but the example only shows two. Is the sentence incorrect or is the example missing one of the arns?

Author: I have added it now with a bulleted list of AWS accounts for more redundancy.

     ]
   }
   ```
5. Repeat this process for any managed accounts. This example requires the both **develop** and **staging** to have a trust relationship with the IAM user **spinnakerManaging**.

After you set up the AWS IAM user, roles, policies and trust relationship, enable the AWS Provider in the Spinnaker. You can use the CLI tool *Halyard* to configure and enable the AWS Provider.

## Halyard Configurations

After the AWS IAM structure (user, roles, policies, and trust relationship) has been set up, the next step is to add the AWS configurations to Spinnaker via Halyard CLI:

### Enable the AWS provider

Before you start, you must have Halyard installed. Additionally, you should understand how to run Halyard commands. Specifically, how you access Halyard depends on how and where you installed Halyard. For example, if you installed Halyard in a Docker container, you need to use the `docker exec` command.

1. Add the AWS accounts to Spinnaker:

   ```bash
   hal config provider aws [parameters] [subcommands]
   ```

   For information about the available parameters, see [hal config provider AWS](https://www.spinnaker.io/reference/halyard/commands/#hal-config-provider-aws).

>    The following examples add the ****spinnakerManaged** and **develop** accounts from the previous examples. Repeat the command for every account you want to add.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The following examples add the ****spinnakerManaging** and **develop** accounts from the previous examples. Repeat the command for every account you want to add.

   ```bash

>    # Adds spinnakerManaged for the regions us-east-1 and us-west-2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Adds spinnakerManaging for the regions us-east-1 and us-west-2

>    export AWS_ACCOUNT_NAME=""

Reviewer 2: Two comments:
* I think this is the correct syntax for setting a variable `export <variable-name> = "<some-name>"`. You had `$<variable-name>`. Let me know if that method actually works. I'm used to the `export` method.
* Is it intentional that the AWS_ACCOUNT_NAME is blank for spinnakerManaging (arn 100000000001)?

Author: I have fixed those issues and added the example ARN

### Create AWS IAM user

1. Navigate to the AWS IAM console.
2. Switch to the **spinnakerManaging** AWS Account.
3. Add a user and name it **spinnakerManaging**.
4. Check the “Programmatic access” checkbox.
5. Add tags to help you identify this user, such as "spinnakerManaging".
6. Create the user.
7. Save the “Access key ID” and “Secret access key” somewhere secure, such as a secret management system like Vault, AWS Secrets manager, or 1Password.
8. Save the AWS ARN for the user, for example: `arn:aws:iam::100000000001:user/spinnakerManaging`. You need the ARN later when you configure the managed accounts to trust the managing account (IAM user).

### Create Roles

#### Create Managed Roles in each target AWS Account

First, create the **spinnakerManaged** role for the **develop ID=200000000002**. Then, repeat the same steps to create **spinnakerManaged** in **staging ID=300000000003**.

1. Navigate to the AWS IAM console.
2. Switch to the AWS Account you want to create the roll for.
3. Go to **Roles > Create Role**.
4. Select EC2. You can change this later, because we want to specify an explicit consumer of this role in a later stage.

> 5. For permissions, search for "PowerUserAccess" and select this policy. This gives the role permission to access AWS services.

Reviewer 3: PowerUserAccess is broader access than Spinnaker really needs; there used to be a very specific policy document doc that had what Spinnaker needs; we should refer to that here. I think that Armory at least has an up-to-date, narrower policy to refer to.

Author: what access do you recommend? 
the policy is AWS managed it should be ok...

Reviewer 3: The PowerUserAccess policy is extremely broad. Unfortunately it looks like the Armory docs also now recommend PowerUserAccess.

This is the policy I'm using now, which at least limits access to the core services Spinnaker needs, although it would need to be broadened to account for CloudFormation and Lambda and potentially other small revisions. This or a similar policy used to be present in the Spinnaker docs (or perhaps the Armory docs).
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Stmt1486065689000",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "autoscaling:CreateAutoScalingGroup",
                "autoscaling:CreateLaunchConfiguration",
                "autoscaling:CreateOrUpdateTags",
                "autoscaling:DeleteAutoScalingGroup",
                "autoscaling:DeleteLaunchConfiguration",
                "autoscaling:DeletePolicy",
                "autoscaling:DeleteScheduledAction",
                "autoscaling:DeleteTags",
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
                "autoscaling:DescribeLaunchConfigurations",
                "autoscaling:DescribeLoadBalancers",
                "autoscaling:DescribePolicies",
                "autoscaling:DescribeScalingActivities",
                "autoscaling:DescribeScheduledActions",
                "autoscaling:DetachInstances",
                "autoscaling:DisableMetricsCollection",
                "autoscaling:EnableMetricsCollection",
                "autoscaling:PutLifecycleHook",
                "autoscaling:PutNotificationConfiguration",
                "autoscaling:PutScalingPolicy",
                "autoscaling:PutScheduledUpdateGroupAction",
                "autoscaling:ResumeProcesses",
                "autoscaling:SuspendProcesses",
                "autoscaling:TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup",
                "autoscaling:UpdateAutoScalingGroup",
                "cloudwatch:DeleteAlarms",
                "cloudwatch:DescribeAlarms",
                "cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics",
                "cloudwatch:ListMetrics",
                "cloudwatch:PutMetricAlarm",
                "ec2:AttachClassicLinkVpc",
                "ec2:AuthorizeSecurityGroupIngress",
                "ec2:CreateNetworkInterface",
                "ec2:CreateSecurityGroup",
                "ec2:CreateTags",
                "ec2:DeleteSecurityGroup",
                "ec2:DeleteTags",
                "ec2:DescribeAccountAttributes",
                "ec2:DescribeAddresses",
                "ec2:DescribeAvailabilityZones",
                "ec2:DescribeClassicLinkInstances",
                "ec2:DescribeImages",
                "ec2:DescribeInstances",
                "ec2:DescribeKeyPairs",
                "ec2:DescribeRegions",
                "ec2:DescribeReservedInstances",
                "ec2:DescribeReservedInstancesOfferings",
                "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
                "ec2:DescribeSpotPriceHistory",
                "ec2:DescribeSubnets",
                "ec2:DescribeTags",
                "ec2:DescribeVpcClassicLink",
                "ec2:DescribeVpcs",
                "ec2:GetConsoleOutput",
                "ec2:ModifyImageAttribute",
                "ec2:ModifyInstanceAttribute",
                "ec2:RebootInstances",
                "ec2:RevokeSecurityGroupIngress",
                "ec2:TerminateInstances",
                "elasticloadbalancing:ApplySecurityGroupsToLoadBalancer",
                "elasticloadbalancing:ConfigureHealthCheck",
                "elasticloadbalancing:CreateListener",
                "elasticloadbalancing:CreateLoadBalancer",
                "elasticloadbalancing:CreateLoadBalancerListeners",
                "elasticloadbalancing:CreateLoadBalancerPolicy",
                "elasticloadbalancing:CreateRule",
                "elasticloadbalancing:CreateTargetGroup",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DeleteListener",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DeleteLoadBalancer",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DeleteLoadBalancerListeners",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DeleteRule",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DeleteTargetGroup",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DeregisterInstancesFromLoadBalancer",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DeregisterTargets",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeInstanceHealth",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeListeners",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeLoadBalancerAttributes",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeLoadBalancerPolicies",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeLoadBalancers",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeRules",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTargetGroupAttributes",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTargetGroups",
                "elasticloadbalancing:DescribeTargetHealth",
                "elasticloadbalancing:ModifyListener",
                "elasticloadbalancing:ModifyLoadBalancerAttributes",
                "elasticloadbalancing:ModifyTargetGroup",
                "elasticloadbalancing:ModifyTargetGroupAttributes",
                "elasticloadbalancing:RegisterInstancesWithLoadBalancer",
                "elasticloadbalancing:RegisterTargets",
                "elasticloadbalancing:SetLoadBalancerPoliciesOfListener",
                "elasticloadbalancing:SetSecurityGroups",
                "iam:ListServerCertificates",
                "iam:PassRole"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

Author: A customer managed policy is cumbersome for an organization. Is an interesting concept to try to reduce risk but is just too much to handle.

Reviewer 3: With cloudformation stacksets and AWS organizations it is quite feasible to have a customer managed policy.

The power user policy is an irresponsible one and it reflects poorly on the product to recommend it.

Author: @avram I understand. If that's the case I highly encourage you to improve the Cloud formation templates that use the AWS IAM policies at https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io/tree/master/downloads/aws

    --assume-role role/spinnakerManaged
```

### Enable the Spinnaker AWS provider

```bash
hal config provider aws enable
```

## Advanced account settings
After you configure the Spinnaker AWS provider you can manage and deploy EC2 resources with Spinnaker.

> You can view the available configuration flags for Spinnaker AWS provider within the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view the available configuration flags for the Spinnaker AWS provider within the
```
